Rationalize the different cline traceback options (#6036)
cython/cython: docs/src/userguide/source_files_and_compilation.rst

============================================  =======================================================================================================================================

> 

Reviewer: Accidental removal?
I consider it a good thing to keep double empty lines between sections, to give them a better visual separation.

.. autodata:: Cython.Compiler.Options.buffer_max_dims
.. autodata:: Cython.Compiler.Options.closure_freelist_size

> 

Reviewer: Accidental removal?

* ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK=0`` never shows the C line number in tracebacks,

Unless the feature is disabled completely with this macro, there is also support for enabling and disabling
the feature at runtime, at the before mentioned cost of longer C compile times and larger extension modules.
This can be configured with the C macro

``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK_RUNTIME=1``
  
To then change the behaviour at runtime, you can import the special module ``cython_runtime``
after loading a Cython module and set the attribute ``cline_in_traceback`` in that module
to either true or false to control the behaviour as your Cython code is being run::

    import cython_runtime
    cython_runtime.cline_in_traceback = True
    
    raise ValueError(5)

If both macros are *not* defined by the build setup or ``CFLAGS``, the feature is disabled.

In Cython 3.0 and earlier, the Cython compiler option ``c_line_in_traceback`` (passed as
an argument to ``cythonize`` in ``setup.py``) or the command
line argument ``--no-c-in-traceback`` could also be used to disable this feature.
From Cython 3.1, this is still possible, but should be migrated to using the C macros instead.

> Before Cython 3.1, the ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACABACK`` macro still works as described

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before Cython 3.1, the ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK`` macro already works as described
```

Note that explicit per-file or local directives as explained above take precedence over the
values passed to ``cythonize``.

.. _cline_in_traceback:

C line numbers in tracebacks
============================

To provide more detailed debug information, Python tracebacks of Cython modules
show the C line where the exception originated (or was propagated). This feature is not
entirely for free and can visibly increase the C compile time as well as adding 0-5% to the

> size of the binary extension module. It can therefore be disabled using a C macro.

Reviewer 2: What I am missing is any mention what is default setting. We can use something like this:

```suggestion
size of the binary extension module. Therefore it is disabled by default. Cython provides C macro to control C lines numbers in tracebacks:
```

Author: I've added a mention of the default (but not this text, because the default is to use the runtime check)

* ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK=1`` always shows the C line number in tracebacks,
* ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK=0`` never shows the C line number in tracebacks,

If the macro is *not* defined by the build setup or ``CFLAGS``, the feature is included and
can be enabled and disabled at runtime, at the before mentioned cost of longer C compile

> times and larger extension modules. This is the default behaviour.

Reviewer 2: I am sorry for being pain. If I am not wrong (probably I am) I cannot replicate it. The documentation is saying that if macro is not defined by build setup or CFLAGS I should be able to enable it at "runtime". Tried via `cython_runtime` and failed:

delete.pyx
```cython
import cython_runtime

cython_runtime.c_line_in_traceback=True

cdef bleh():
    raise ValueError()

bleh()
```

setup.py
```python
from setuptools import setup, Extension
from Cython.Build import cythonize
import numpy

from Cython.Compiler import Options

extensions = [
    Extension("*", ["delete.pyx"],
    ),
]

setup(
    name="My hello app",
    ext_modules=cythonize(extensions)
)
```

```
python -c 'import delete'

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
  File "delete.pyx", line 8, in init delete
    bleh()
  File "delete.pyx", line 6, in delete.bleh
    raise ValueError()
ValueError
```

Reviewer 2: I also tried to enable it in `setup.py` with the same result:
```python
from setuptools import setup, Extension
from Cython.Build import cythonize
import numpy

from Cython.Compiler import Options

extensions = [
    Extension("*", ["delete.pyx"],
    ),
]

setup(
    name="My hello app",
    ext_modules=cythonize(extensions, c_line_in_traceback=True),
)
```

Reviewer: > ```cython
> cython_runtime.c_line_in_traceback=True
> ```
This should read
> ```cython
> cython_runtime.cline_in_traceback=True
> ```

Reviewer 2: > > ```cython
> > cython_runtime.c_line_in_traceback=True
> > ```
> 
> This should read
> 
> > ```cython
> > cython_runtime.cline_in_traceback=True
> > ```

Yes. I thought that it has identical name as the option but not... Now it works.

Note that explicit per-file or local directives as explained above take precedence over the
values passed to ``cythonize``.

.. _cline_in_traceback:

> C line numbers in tracebacks
> ============================
> 
> Control of whether to show the C line number in the traceback is complicated so is
> detailed here separately.  The main reason to want to disable it is that it can give
> a notable reduction in binary file size (0-5%, depending on the module).
> 
> At the top level it is controlled by the Cython option ``Options.cline_in_c_line_in_traceback``
> which defaults to ``True``.  You can also turn this off by passing ``--no-c-in-traceback``
> to Cython on the command line.
> 
> Provided ``Options.cline_in_c_line_in_traceback`` is on, then you can use the C macro
> ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK`` to control the exact behaviour:
> 
> * ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK==1`` always shows the C line number in tracebacks,
> * ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK==0`` never shows the C line number in tracebacks,
> * the default is to pick at runtime (you can explicitly set this with
>   ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK==2`` from Cython 3.1 upwards, but is still the default
>   in earlier versions).
>   
> For the default behaviour of picking at runtime, you can import the
> module ``cython_runtime`` and set the variable ``cline_in_traceback`` in that
> module to either ``True`` or ``False`` to control the behaviour as your Cython
> code is being run.
> 
> From Cython 3.1 we will be allowing users to pick the full range of behaviours with
> the ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK`` macro define so it should no longer be necessary to
> use ``Options.cline_in_c_line_in_traceback``.
> However, in earlier versions it is necessary to turn this option off if you want to
> get the benefit of the reduced binary file size.

Reviewer: Let's tell users more about what they should do than what they shouldn't do.
```suggestion
C line numbers in tracebacks
============================

To provide more detailed debug information, Python tracebacks of Cython modules
show the C line where the exception originated (or was propagated). This feature is not
entirely for free and can visibly increase the C compile time as well as adding 0-5% to the
size of the binary extension module. It can therefore be disabled using a C macro.

* ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK=1`` always shows the C line number in tracebacks,
* ``CYTHON_CLINE_IN_TRACEBACK=0`` never shows the C line number in tracebacks,

If the macro is *not* defined by the build setup or ``CFLAGS``, the feature is included and
can be enabled and disabled at runtime, at the before mentioned cost of longer C compile
times and larger extension modules.
  
For changing the value at runtime, you can import the special module ``cython_runtime``
after loading a Cython module and set the attribute ``cline_in_traceback`` in that module
to either true or false to control the behaviour as your Cython code is being run.

Previously, the Cython option ``c_line_in_traceback`` or the command
line argument ``--no-c-in-traceback`` could be used to disable this feature. This is still
possible, but should be migrated to using the C macro instead.
```

Author: I've mostly used this, but adjusted the final paragraph to mention versions since I think that's useful information (at least while the versions are current/future ones)
